>> Mike North: So for now this seems like
it should do, so I'm gonna to save that,
and I'm gonna click this sign-in button.
Let me go to my console here,
click, all right,
I'm in my debugger, so
there's my DOM event.
And if I look at the target,
it is a form element, so looking good so
far, so
I could console.log something here.
>> Mike North: Let's actually do something
with this, let's say I want the target.
>> Mike North: And
because I use JSDoc comments,
you can see that VS code knows
that this is an HTMLFormElement.
>> Mike North: So that's the form element,
and I want to querySelector to get
the select, so that should be
the currently selected user.
>> Mike North: And
we'll try to console.log that out, and
let's get rid of the debugger for now.
Console, clear it, Sample McData, sign in,
all right, let me change the setting here.
I want to preserve the log, reload,
clear it out, Sample McData, sign in.
Okay, so here's what's happening,
UserId is 2, so my console log succeeds.
Then I see this thing I'm used to
seeing when my Ember app boots up.
Anyone have an idea what's going on here?
>> Mike North: Can somebody tell me
the default behavior when I submit a form?
>> Speaker 2: Bubbled.
>> Speaker 3: Postback?
>> Mike North: Sorry, what?
>> Speaker 3: The postback?
>> Mike North: I mean,
it makes a get request.
>> Speaker 4: Refresh the page?
>> Mike North: Yeah,
it results in the page reloading, in fact,
I see Navigated to login?
So it's similar to clicking on an a tag,
a vanilla HTML link,
it's causing a page load.
That's the default behavior of a form
submit event, we need to prevent this.
And the way to do this, this is just
the way the DOM API works, preventDefault.
We're saying, look,
we're handing this submit event,
don't handle this the way vanilla
HTML submit events are handled.
So if we reload this,
clear the console, sign in,
change the user, sign in,
change it back, sign in,
we can see that we're getting
stuff logged out, yes?
>> Speaker 5: So native DOM events versus
the action helper fire at different times?
Action helper fires after all the native
DOM, like onClick-type stuff, Next up,
where does this sit?
>> Mike North: Yep, this is
equivalent to addEventListener, and
there are some subtle differences.
I don't wanna get too deep
into the weeds there,
because it's DOM API errata,
but it is equivalent.
The mechanism by which it
operates is addEventListener,
it's different than onClick equals action,
which you're used to in classic Ember.
You will not see the action helper or
modifier used
anywhere in this app,
we're just using the on modifier.
This is the path forward that
will give us some benefits,
particularly around things
like rehydration, right?
>> Mike North: There are benefits, I'm not
ready to get into it yet, I will look for
an opportunity later on, yes?
>> Speaker 6: Say, Mike, do you think it
could be a problem if you have to remember
to put that preventDefault in every
form-related component you make?
>> Mike North: Yep.
>> Speaker 6: You'd be putting that at the
top level in some kind of initializer or
something to say, at the body tag, just,
by default, don't refresh the page when a
form's submitted, or is that bad practice?
>> Mike North: It is possible to do that,
I would say that it is a bad practice.
Anytime you do something like that that
has massive ramifications throughout your
app, you're setting yourself up for
potential unexpected behavior later on.
There are community
libraries that will give
you helpers that you can
use in this space here,
which would let you kind
of call this function,
call onLoginFormSubmit,
but also preventDefault.
So you'd kind of wrap that functions, so
you'd see right in your template that in
this specific case, this is prevented.
I will give you that it might make sense,
I can't really come up with
a case where preventing default
would be a bad thing for a form tag.
But in other places,
it might totally be a bad thing,
maybe file uploads or something.
There's certain times when maybe you do
need to do a true multipart form submit.
But I definitely err on the side of
doing these modifications
at specific call sites.
I want as little global
customization as possible cuz
then whoever contributes to your app,
they have to familiarized themselves with
all of the little tweaks and adjustments.
You sort of altered your world
from what people expect it to be.